writing/about.md, before:

## About this website

This website is constructed as a static html site, which is being served by the Rocket framework, which is written in Rust. I like Rust, and figured this was a good excuse to learn a little bit more about its ecosystem in the web space. All the the writing that you might see here (including this page) is constructed of html code that is auto-generated from a Markdown file and given the site theme, thanks to the `markdown` crate. That's about it! It's not a very complicated site, only a little bit of html and css combined with a simple web server that requires less that 100 LoC. To the degree applicable, the [source code](https://github.com/quietlychris/site/) for this site is licensed under GPLv3, although I'm not particularly sure why someone would want the not-so-great source code of a mostly-static html site. The git repository also helps to keep track of continuity of the content, for when pieces of writing or other material get updated. 

I don't have any contact information on here, but if you're interested in reaching out, the easiest way to do so at the moment would be to check my GitHub commits for my contact information (link is in the menu). Otherwise, I may end up posting my CV on here at some point, which will also have that information.

Commit message:

First attempt at adding Plausible analytics

writing/about.md, after:

## About this website
**Updated 04/15/2021** 

This website is constructed as a static html site, which is being served by the Rocket framework, which is written in Rust. I like Rust, and figured this was a good excuse to learn a little bit more about its ecosystem in the web space. All the the writing that you might see here (including this page) is constructed of html code that is auto-generated from a Markdown file and given the site theme, thanks to the `markdown` crate. That's about it! It's not a very complicated site, only a little bit of html and css combined with a simple web server that requires less that 100 LoC. To the degree applicable, the [source code](https://github.com/quietlychris/site/) for this site is licensed under GPLv3, although I'm not particularly sure why someone would want the not-so-great source code of a mostly-static html site. The git repository also helps to keep track of continuity of the content, for when pieces of writing or other material get updated. Analytics are currently being tested out using [Plausible](https://plausible.io), which is an open source, privacy-respecting, and GDPR-compliant web analytics platform. 

If you're looking to get in touch, the best way is to look at my email address on my C.V. above, or else find it in my git commit history through Github.
