## About this website
**Updated 07/18/2021** 

This website is constructed as a static html site, which is being served by the Rocket framework, which is written in Rust. I like Rust, and figured this was a good excuse to learn some more about its web ecosystem. All the the writing that you might see here (including this page) is constructed from html code that is auto-generated from a Markdown file and given the site theme, thanks to the `markdown` crate. There's also a section that I call the "sandbox," which I use as a place to experiment with new tech or different frameworks. Lately, that's been a combination of basic geographic information system (GIS) using the Leaflet framework (both in native Javascript and also in WebAssembly through Rust library binding), as well as dipping my toe into frameworks like AlpineJS.

All things considered, it's not a particularly complicated site--a bit of html and css combined with a fairly simple web server that sits at around 100 LoC. To the degree applicable, the [source code](https://github.com/quietlychris/site/) for this site is licensed under AGPLv3. The git repository also helps to keep track of continuity of the content when pieces of writing or other material get updated. Analytics are run using [Plausible](https://plausible.io), an open source, privacy-respecting, GDPR-compliant web analytics platform, and the site itself is hosted on a Digital Ocean droplet. 

If you're looking to get in touch, the best way is to take a look a the top of my [resumé](http://cmoran.xyz/cmoran.pdf), or else find it in my git commit history on [Github](https://github.com/quietlychris). Thanks for stopping by!  
